README.md, before:

# mzML Parser & GUI

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.14.0-blue)
![PyQt5](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyQt5-v5-brightgreen)

> A Python-based pipeline for extracting and visualing MS-level 1 spectra data from `.mzML` files generated by mass spectrometers.

---

## Project Overview

This project provides:

1. A **pipeline** for parsing `.mzML` files, extracting spectra with MS level = 1, and saving the relevant data as JSON.  
2. A **GUI** for selecting files, choosing a chemical for analysis, and (in the future) graphing the results.
3. (Future) - Graphing for visualization/calculation.
4. (Future) - Implemention of API.

---

## Project Structure


```text
.
├── Data/
│   └── CVBS_1_Dis_neg_1.json      # Example .mzML file converted to JSON
├── Pipeline/
│   ├── Graph.py                   # Functions for graphing chemical data (planned)
│   └── Parser.py                  # Parses .mzML files and outputs JSON
├── gui/
│   └── gui.py                     # GUI for selecting files and chemicals
├── TranslatedRscript.py           # Python translation of R’s KMDNoise function
├── JSONplaceholderExample.py      # (Placeholder file, not used)
└── README.md                      # This file
```


---

## Features

- Parse `.mzML` files and extract MS level = 1 spectra.  
- Extracted information includes:
  - Spectrum ID  
  - MS level metadata  
  - Base peak m/z  
  - Base peak intensity  
- Saves extracted data as a JSON file in the same folder as the input `.mzML` file.  
- GUI for:
  - Selecting `.json` files  
  - Choosing a chemical for calculation  
  - (Future) Graphing and calculations for chemical data  

---

## Installation

### 1. Install Python
* Windows:
  - Download Python 3.14 from https://www.python.org/downloads/.
  - Run the installer and check "Add Python to PATH".
  - Verify installation in Command Prompt:
    ```bash
    python --version
    ```
* MacOS:
  - Install Python 3 using Homebrew:
    ```bash
    brew install python
    ```
    or download from https://www.python.org/downloads/.
  - Verify installation in Terminal:
    ```bash
    python3 --version
    ```
### 2. Install Dependencies
  - Installing pip requirements:
* Windows:
  ```bash
  python -m pip install --user -r pip-requirements.txt
  or
  python -m pip install --user -r /path/to/pip-requirements.txt
  ```
  or download PyQt5 from https://pypi.org/project/PyQt5/.
* MacOS:
  ```bash
  python3 -m pip install --user -r pip-requirements.txt
  or
  python3 -m pip install --user -r /path/to/pip-requirements.txt
  ```
  or download PyQt5 from https://pypi.org/project/PyQt5/.
### 3. Clone the Repository
* Windows & MacOs:
  ```bash
  git clone git@github.com:Natgonza99/PSLGang.git
  cd your-repo
  ```
### 4. Run Program
* Windows:
  - To run Parser, open command line and run:
    ```bash
    python pipeline/parser.py path/to/CVBS_1_Dis_neg_1.mzML
    ```
  - To run 'gui' find the directory where you've cloned the repository. Once inside PSLGang folder, cd into 'gui' and run:
    ```bash
    python gui.py
    ```
* MacOs:
  - To run Parser, open command line and run:
    ```bash
    python pipeline/parser.py path/to/CVBS_1_Dis_neg_1.mzML
    ```
  - To run 'gui' find the directory where you've cloned the repository. Once inside PSLGang folder, cd into 'gui' and run:
    ```bash
    python3 gui.py
    ```

Commit message:

Base peak m/z is plotted as topmost plot, added KMD band for graph, updated README

README.md, after:

# mzML Parser & GUI

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.14.0-blue)
![PyQt5](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyQt5-v5-brightgreen)

> A Python-based pipeline for extracting and visualing MS-level 1 spectra data from `.mzML` files generated by mass spectrometers.

---

## Project Overview

This project provides:

1. A **pipeline** for parsing `.mzML` files, extracting spectra with MS level = 1, and saving the relevant data as JSON.  
2. A **GUI** for selecting files, choosing a chemical for analysis, and graphing the results.
3. A **Graph** for visualization, calculation, and option for exporting as a CSV.
4. (Future) - Implemention of CLI.

---

## Project Structure


```text
.
├── Data/
│   └── CVBS_1_Dis_neg_1.json      # Example .mzML file converted to JSON
├── Pipeline/
│   ├── Graph.py                   # Functions for graphing chemical data (planned)
│   └── Parser.py                  # Parses .mzML files and outputs JSON
├── gui/
│   └── gui.py                     # GUI for selecting files and chemicals
├── TranslatedRscript.py           # Python translation of R’s KMDNoise function
├── JSONplaceholderExample.py      # (Placeholder file, not used)
└── README.md                      # This file
```


---

## Features

- Parse `.mzML` files and extract MS level = 1 spectra.  
- Extracted information includes:
  - Spectrum ID  
  - MS level metadata  
  - Base peak m/z  
  - Base peak intensity  
- Saves extracted data as a JSON file in the same folder as the input `.mzML` file.  
- GUI for:
  - Selecting `.json` files  
  - Choosing a chemical for calculation  
  - (Future) Graphing and calculations for chemical data  

---

## Installation

### 1. Install Python
* Windows:
  - Download Python 3.14 from https://www.python.org/downloads/.
  - Run the installer and check "Add Python to PATH".
  - Verify installation in Command Prompt:
    ```bash
    python --version
    ```
* MacOS:
  - Install Python 3 using Homebrew:
    ```bash
    brew install python
    ```
    or download from https://www.python.org/downloads/.
  - Verify installation in Terminal:
    ```bash
    python3 --version
    ```
### 2. Install Dependencies
  - Installing pip requirements:
* Windows:
  ```bash
  python -m pip install --user -r pip-requirements.txt
  or
  python -m pip install --user -r /path/to/pip-requirements.txt
  ```
  or download PyQt5 from https://pypi.org/project/PyQt5/.
* MacOS:
  ```bash
  python3 -m pip install --user -r pip-requirements.txt
  or
  python3 -m pip install --user -r /path/to/pip-requirements.txt
  ```
  or download PyQt5 from https://pypi.org/project/PyQt5/.
### 3. Clone the Repository
* Windows & MacOs:
  ```bash
  git clone git@github.com:Natgonza99/PSLGang.git
  cd your-repo
  ```
### 4. Run Program
* Windows:
  - To run the program, first find the directory where you've cloned the repository. Once inside PSLGang folder run:
    ```bash
    python -m gui.gui
    ```
* MacOs:
  - To run the program, first find the directory where you've cloned the repository. Once inside PSLGang folder run:
    ```bash
    python -m gui.gui
    ```
